# setup nodejs with typescript

Initialize a Project

```
npm init
```

First, you need TypeScript installed absolutely.You can decide to have it installed globally on your machine, or locally to your project.

tsc is the TypeScript compiler and has a command line interface with plenty of available options.

To install TypeScript globally, run:

```
npm i typescript -g
tsc --init
```

And to install locally, run:

If you’re using a version of TypeScript installed locally, you’ll instead want to ensure that you’re running the local version by simply using npx.

```
npm install typescript --save-dev
npx tsc --init
```

After running tsc with the ‘--init’ flag, a ‘tsconfig.json’ file will be added to your project folder with a few sensible defaults and an extensive list of commented-out possible configurations.

For our project the file ‘tsconfig.json’ are as follows

```
{
	"compilerOptions": {
		"declaration": true,
		"experimentalDecorators": true,
		"emitDecoratorMetadata": true,
		"module": "commonjs",
		"esModuleInterop": true,
		"target": "es6",
		"listFiles": true,
		"noImplicitAny": false,
		"moduleResolution": "node",
		"sourceMap": true,
		"noEmitHelpers": false,
		"alwaysStrict": true,
		"suppressImplicitAnyIndexErrors": false,
		"forceConsistentCasingInFileNames": true,
		"resolveJsonModule": true,
		"outDir": "dist/",
		"diagnostics": true,
		"baseUrl": ".",
		"paths": {
			"*": ["node_modules/*"]
		},
		"typeRoots": ["@types", "node_modules/@types"]
	},
	"include": ["src/**/*"],
	"exclude": ["node_modules"]
}
```

With the tsconfig.json in place, we can start coding our app in TypeScript.

we will add following scripts in `package.json`

```
"build": "tsc",
"start": "tsc && ts-node --files ./src/index.ts"
```

and then we can use `npm run build` to transpile typescript files. With this, the JavaScript files that the TypeScript compiler outputs will be in a dist folder and sourceMaps will be generated.

similarly we can use `npm run start` to run the `src/index.ts` file, where we will put our server initialization code soon.

# Configuring ESLint

[docs](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/getting-starteds)

ESLint is a tool for identifying and reporting on patterns found in ECMAScript/JavaScript code, with the goal of making code more consistent and avoiding bugs.
