# Basic Node server

Simple node.js app that servers "hello world"

## step 1

Initialize node project with

```
npm init
```

add `start` script into `package.json`

```javascript
"scripts": {
"start": "node index.js"
},
```

## step 2

Create an `.env` file

The file should be placed in the root of your project

Install the dotenv library: `npm install dotenv`

## step 3

create `index.js` and add the code

```javascript
// or just write => require('dotenv').config();
// which uses defult configs
require('dotenv').config({ path: __dirname + '/.env' });

const http = require('http');
const port = process.env.PORT || 3000;

const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
	res.statusCode = 200;
	const msg = 'Hello Node!';
	res.end(msg);
});

server.listen(port, () => {
	console.log(`Server running on http://localhost:${port}/`);
});
```

# Purpose of Environment Variables

[ref](https://www.section.io/engineering-education/nodejs-environment-variables/)

Environment Variables are important to a software developer for multiple reasons.

1. Separation of Concerns

   Separation of Concerns refers to a software design principle that states that computer programs should be divided into distinct sections, such that each section addresses a separate concern.

   Application Configuration is a section of the code that should be decoupled from the application. Good software practices state that app config requires strict separation of config from code. Such config files can be stored as environment variables.

2. Protecting Config Keys

   With the increasing popularity of cloud computing, more applications are using cloud services and other external APIs. Most of these come with config keys for control and access management. If the API keys are added to the application, and the code is pushed to a public repository on GitHub, this could lead to an unmonitored access problem. Unknown parties might end up using your API keys, leading to an unintended bill for your cloud services, and other potential security issues.

   To solve this problem, the config keys can be added as environment variables and invoked from a closed environment from where the application is deployed.
