# Modules

As our application grows bigger, we want to split it into multiple files, so called “modules”. A module may contain a class or a library of functions for a specific purpose.

# CommonJS

CommonJS is a volunteer working group that designs and implements JavaScript APIs for declaring modules.

A CommonJS module is essentially a reusable piece of JavaScript which exports specific objects, making them available for other modules to `require` in their programs.

With CommonJS, each JavaScript file stores modules in its own unique module context (just like wrapping it in a closure). In this scope, we use the module.exports object to expose modules, and require to import them.

The require() function is only available by default on Node.js environment.

When you’re defining a CommonJS module, it might look something like this:

```javascript
function myModule() {
	this.hello = function () {
		return 'hello!';
	};

	this.goodbye = function () {
		return 'goodbye!';
	};
}

module.exports = myModule;
```

We use the special object module and place a reference of our function into module.exports.
Then when someone wants to use myModule, they can require it in their file, like so:

```javascript
var myModule = require('myModule');

var myModuleInstance = new myModule();
myModuleInstance.hello(); // 'hello!'
myModuleInstance.goodbye(); // 'goodbye!'
```

multiple exports

```javascript
const method = () => {
	// your method logic
};

const otherMethod = () => {
	// your method logic
};

module.exports = {
	method,
	otherMethod,
	// anotherMethod
};
```

**NOTE** that CommonJS takes a server-first approach and **synchronously loads modules**. This matters because if we have three other modules we need to require, it’ll load them one by one.

# ES6 Modules

A module is just a file. One script is one module. As simple as that.

Modules can load each other and use special directives export and import to interchange functionality, call functions of one module from another one:

```javascript
// 📁 sayHi.js
export function sayHi(user) {
	alert(`Hello, ${user}!`);
}

// 📁 main.js
import { sayHi } from './sayHi.js';

alert(sayHi); // function...
sayHi('John'); // Hello, John!
```

## Multiple named exports

```javascript
//------ lib.js ------
export const sqrt = Math.sqrt;
export function square(x) {
	return x * x;
}
export function diag(x, y) {
	return sqrt(square(x) + square(y));
}

//------ main.js ------
import { square, diag } from 'lib';
console.log(square(11)); // 121
console.log(diag(4, 3)); // 5
```

You can also import the complete module:

```javascript
//------ main.js ------
import * as lib from 'lib';
console.log(lib.square(11)); // 121
console.log(lib.diag(4, 3)); // 5
```

## Single default export

There can be a single default export. For example, a function:

```javascript
//------ myFunc.js ------
export default function () { ··· } // no semicolon!

//------ main1.js ------
import myFunc from 'myFunc';
myFunc();
```

Or a class:

```javascript
//------ MyClass.js ------
export default class { ··· } // no semicolon!

//------ main2.js ------
import MyClass from 'MyClass';
const inst = new MyClass();
```

# ES modules v/s CommonJS

**The ES module format was created to standardize the JavaScript module system.**

    The CommonJS module system, on the other hand, is built into Node.js. Prior to the introduction of the ES module in Node.js, CommonJS was the standard for Node.js modules. As a result, there are plenty of Node.js libraries and modules written with CommonJS.

**CommonJS loads modules synchronously, ES modules are asynchronous**

    One of the limitations of using require() is that it loads modules synchronously. This means that modules are loaded and processed one by one.

    As you might have guessed, this can pose a few performance issues for large-scale applications that hundreds of modules. In such a case, import might outperform require() based on its asynchronous behavior.

**Node.js support for ES modules**

    Older Node.js versions don’t support ES modules. The minimum version that supports ES6 modules in nodejs is Node version 15.3
